Let's go to PyCharm and execute some examples to understand more the difference between generic exceptions
and building exceptions.
Let's start by generic exceptions.
This is the first example.
We define the try and except block.
We don't specify any specific exceptions in the except block.
This try except can catch any type of exceptions.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
An exception occurred, but we don't have any idea about the type of exceptions.
Let's go to the second example.
We have the try except block.
We have an operation.
Then exponentiation 1000.
The result for this operation it can be too large and can throw an throw an exception.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
The number is too large.
And depending of the platform, it can throw an exception.
The type of exceptions are arithmetic error.
We will see with more details the exception hierarchy in Python.
But here I like to show that zero division error and overflow error are subclasses from the arithmetic
error.
Arithmetic error is a subclass from the exception class, and also exception is a subclass from the
base exceptions here.
Just remember that zero division error and overflow error are two classes from arithmetic error.
Let's go back to PyCharm.
Arithmetic error is a subclass from exception.
Let's go to the section to wielding exceptions.
In the first example we have the try except block, but in the except block we specify the type of exception.
Arithmetic error.
Why arithmetic error?
Because version by zero raise arithmetic error.
Let's execute the code.
An arithmetic error occurred.
Division by zero.
In the second example, zero division error is an exception more specified to this operation.
We can catch the same exception by base exception by exception, by arithmetic error, or with more
specified by zero division error.
Like we said in the definition of a building exceptions, it's generally recommended to catch specific
exceptions whenever possible.
In this case, zero division error.
Is more specified than arithmetic error, as this makes the code easier to read, maintain and get more
information about the error and track down issues more easily.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
The same result is zero division error occurred.
We catch the exception with the most specified exception in the upcoming chapter we will see together.
Other building exceptions can be used to catch exceptions in Python.
And that's it for this video.